I () I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from the Phoenician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoenician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. /ynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon.
I () In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced nearly like it.
I () As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc.
I- (prefix.) See Y-.
We (pl. ) of I
Our (pl. ) of I
Ours (pl. ) of I
Us (pl. ) of I
I (object.) The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself.
Iamatology (n.) Materia Medica; that branch of therapeutics which treats of remedies.
Iamb (n.) An iambus or iambic.
Iambic (a.) Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot.
Iambic (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, iambics; as, an iambic verse; iambic meter. See Lambus.
Iambic (n.) An iambic foot; an iambus.
Iambic (n.) A verse composed of iambic feet.
Iambic (n.) A satirical poem (such poems having been anciently written in iambic verse); a satire; a lampoon.
Iambical (a.) Iambic.
Iambically (adv.) In a iambic manner; after the manner of iambics.
Iambize (v. t.) To satirize in iambics; to lampoon.
Iambi (pl. ) of Iambus
Iambuses (pl. ) of Iambus
Iambus (n.) A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, as in /mans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n.
Ianthinae (pl. ) of Ianthina
Ianthinas (pl. ) of Ianthina
Ianthina (n.) Any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and violet snail.
Iatraliptic (a.) Treating diseases by anointing and friction; as, the iatraliptic method.
Iatric (a.) Alt. of Iatrical
Iatrical (a.) Of or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men.
Iatrochemical (a.) Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists.
Iatrochemist (n.) A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry.
Iatrochemistry (n.) Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical principles.
Iatromathematical (a.) Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine.
Iatromathematician (n.) One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the 17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists.
Iberian (a.) Of or pertaining to Iberia.
Ibexes (pl. ) of Ibex
Ibices (pl. ) of Ibex
Ibex (n.) One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok.
Ibidem (adv.) In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib.
Ibis (n.) Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidae, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles.
-ible () See -able.
-ic () A suffix signifying, in general, relating to, or characteristic of; as, historic, hygienic, telegraphic, etc.
-ic () A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters into certain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valence relatively higher than in compounds where the name of the element ends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the general sense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic.
Icarian (a.) Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in flight.
Ice (n.) Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance, crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that of water at 4¡ C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice floats.
Ice (n.) Concreted sugar.
Ice (n.) Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially frozen.
Ice (n.) Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice.
Iced (imp. & p. p.) of Ice
Icing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ice
Ice (v. t.) To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something resembling ice.
Ice (v. t.) To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc.
Ice (v. t.) To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze.
Iceberg (n.) A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.
Icebird (n.) An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar.
Icebound (a.) Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.
Ice-built (a.) Composed of ice.
Ice-built (a.) Loaded with ice.
Iced (a.) Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water.
Iced (a.) Covered with something resembling ice, as sugar icing; frosted; as, iced cake.
Icefall (n.) A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall.
Icelander (n.) A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland.
Icelandic (a.) Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the Icelanders.
Icelandic (n.) The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other language now spoken.
Iceland moss () A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a demulcent.
Iceland spar () A transparent variety of calcite, the best of which is obtained in Iceland. It is used for the prisms of the polariscope, because of its strong double refraction. Cf. Calcite.
Icemen (pl. ) of Iceman
Iceman (n.) A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers.
Iceman (n.) One who deals in ice; one who retails or delivers ice.
Ice plant () A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in making glass.
Icequake (n.) The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold.
Ich (pron.) I.
Ichneumon (n.) Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family Viverridae. Numerous species are found in Asia and Africa. The Egyptian species(H. ichneumon), which ranges to Spain and Palestine, is noted for destroying the eggs and young of the crocodile as well as various snakes and lizards, and hence was considered sacred by the ancient Egyptians. The common species of India (H. griseus), known as the mongoose, has similar habits and is often domesticated. It is noted for killing the cobra.
Ichneumon (n.) Any hymenopterous insect of the family Ichneumonidae, of which several thousand species are known, belonging to numerous genera.
Ichneumonidan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidae, or ichneumon flies.
Ichneumonidan (n.) One of the Ichneumonidae.
Ichneumonides (n. pl.) The ichneumon flies.
Ichnite (n.) A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.
Ichnographic (a.) Alt. of Ichnographical
Ichnographical (a.) Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.
Ichnography (n.) A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map; also, the art of making such plans.
Ichnolite (n.) A fossil footprint; an ichnite.
Ichnolithology (n.) Same as Ichnology.
Ichnological (a.) Of or pertaining to ichnology.
Ichnology (n.) The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.
Ichnoscopy (n.) The search for the traces of anything.
Ichor (n.) An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins of the gods.
Ichor (n.) A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc.
Ichorhaemia (n.) Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances.
Ichorous (a.) Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious.
Ichthidin (n.) A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes.
Ichthin (n.) A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg yolk of cartilaginous fishes.
Ichthulin (n.) A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg.
Ichthus (n.) In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish, or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek words /, /, / /, /, Jesus, Christ, Son of God, Savior.
Ichthyic (a.) Like, or pertaining to, fishes.
Ichthyocol (n.) Alt. of Ichthyocolla
Ichthyocolla (n.) Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of certain fishes.
Ichthyocoprolite (n.) Fossil dung of fishes.
Ichthyodorulite (n.) One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain skates.
Ichthyography (n.) A treatise on fishes.
Ichthyoid (a.) Alt. of Ichthyoidal
Ichthyoidal (a.) Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of fishes; -- said of some amphibians.
Ichthyolatry (n.) Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols.
Ichthyolite (n.) A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.
Ichthyologic (a.) Alt. of Ichthyological
Ichthyological (a.) Of or pertaining to ichthyology.
Ichthyologist (n.) One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology.
Ichthyology (n.) The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoology which relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and habits.
Ichthyomancy (n.) Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes.
Ichthyomorpha (n. pl.) The Urodela.
Ichthyomorphic (a.) Alt. of Ichthyomorphous
Ichthyomorphous (a.) Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.
Ichthyophagist (n.) One who eats, or subsists on, fish.
Ichthyophagous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, fish.
Ichthyohagy (n.) The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.
Ichthyophthalmite (n.) See Apophyllite.
Ichthyophthira (n. pl.) A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species parasitic on fishes.
Ichthyopsida (n. pl.) A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and Fishes.
Ichthyopterygia (n. pl.) See Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyopterygium (n.) The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes.
Ichthyornis (n.) An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American Cretaceous formation. It is remarkable for having biconcave vertebrae, and sharp, conical teeth set in sockets. Its wings were well developed. It is the type of the order Odontotormae.
Ichthyosaur (n.) One of the Ichthyosaura.
Ichthyosauria (n. pl.) An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia. They have not been found later than the Cretaceous period.
Ichthyosaurian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyosaurian (n.) One of the Ichthyosauria.
Ichthyosauri (pl. ) of Ichthyosaurus
Ichthyosaurus (n.) An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their short, biconcave vertebrae, resembling those of fishes. Several species, varying in length from ten to thirty feet, are known from the Liassic, Oolitic, and Cretaceous formations.
Ichthyosis (n.) A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; -- called also fishskin.
Ichthyotomist (n.) One skilled in ichthyotomy.
Ichthyoomy (n.) The anatomy or dissection of fishes.
Ichthys (n.) Same as Ichthus.
Icicle (n.) A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house.
Icicled (a.) Having icicles attached.
Icily (adv.) In an icy manner; coldly.
Iciness (n.) The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.
Icing (n.) A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting.
Ickle (n.) An icicle.
Icon (n.) An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.
Iconical (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or representations of any kind.
Iconism (n.) The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a delineation or description.
Iconize (v. t.) To form an image or likeness of.
Iconoclasm (n.) The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking.
Iconoclast (n.) A breaker or destroyer of images or idols; a determined enemy of idol worship.
Iconoclast (n.) One who exposes or destroys impositions or shams; one who attacks cherished beliefs; a radical.
Iconoclastic (a.) Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
Iconodule (n.) Alt. of Iconodulist
Iconodulist (n.) One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast.
Iconographer (n.) A maker of images.
Iconographic (a.) Of or pertaining to iconography.
Iconographic (a.) Representing by means of pictures or diagrams; as, an icongraphic encyclopaedia.
Iconography (n.) The art or representation by pictures or images; the description or study of portraiture or representation, as of persons; as, the iconography of the ancients.
Iconography (n.) The study of representative art in general.
Iconolater (n.) One who worships images.
Iconolatry (n.) The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from idolatry, the worship of images themselves.
Iconology (n.) The discussion or description of portraiture or of representative images. Cf. Iconography.
Iconomachy (n.) Hostility to images as objects of worship.
Iconomical (a.) Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship.
Iconophilist (n.) A student, or lover of the study, of iconography.
Icosahedral (a.) Having twenty equal sides or faces.
Icosahedron (n.) A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces.
Icosandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants, having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.
Icosandrian (a.) Alt. of Icosandrous
Icosandrous (a.) Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.
Icositetrahedron (n.) A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or trapezohedron.
-ics () A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences, systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics, politics, athletics.
Icteric (n.) A remedy for the jaundice.
Icteric (a.) Alt. of Icterical
Icterical (a.) Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.
Icterical (a.) Good against the jaundice.
Icteritious (a.) Alt. of Icteritous
Icteritous (a.) Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the jaundice.
Icteroid (a.) Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an icteroid tint or complexion.
Icterus (a.) The jaundice.
Ictic (a.) Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt.
Ictus (n.) The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf. Arsis.
Ictus (n.) A stroke or blow, as in a sunstroke, the sting of an insect, pulsation of an artery, etc.
Icy (superl.) Pertaining to, resembling, or abounding in, ice; cold; frosty.
Icy (superl.) Characterized by coldness, as of manner, influence, etc.; chilling; frigid; cold.
Icy-pearled (a.) Spangled with ice.
I'd () A contraction from I would or I had.
Id (n.) A small fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Leuciscus idus or Idus idus) of Europe. A domesticated variety, colored like the goldfish, is called orfe in Germany.
Idalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to Venus, to whom it was sacred.
Ide (n.) Same as Id.
-ide () A suffix used to denote: (a) The nonmetallic, or negative, element or radical in a binary compound; as, oxide, sulphide, chloride. (b) A compound which is an anhydride; as, glycolide, phthalide. (c) Any one of a series of derivatives; as, indogenide, glucoside, etc.
Ideas (pl. ) of Idea
Idea (n.) The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever, whether sensible or spiritual.
Idea (n.) A general notion, or a conception formed by generalization.
Idea (n.) Hence: Any object apprehended, conceived, or thought of, by the mind; a notion, conception, or thought; the real object that is conceived or thought of.
Idea (n.) A belief, option, or doctrine; a characteristic or controlling principle; as, an essential idea; the idea of development.
Idea (n.) A plan or purpose of action; intention; design.
Idea (n.) A rational conception; the complete conception of an object when thought of in all its essential elements or constituents; the necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when conceived in the abstract.
Idea (n.) A fiction object or picture created by the imagination; the same when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a standard to be reached; one of the archetypes or patterns of created things, conceived by the Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the mind of the Deity.
Ideal (a.) Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental; as, ideal knowledge.
Ideal (a.) Reaching an imaginary standard of excellence; fit for a model; faultless; as, ideal beauty.
Ideal (a.) Existing in fancy or imagination only; visionary; unreal.
Ideal (a.) Teaching the doctrine of idealism; as, the ideal theory or philosophy.
Ideal (a.) Imaginary.
Ideal (n.) A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a model of excellence, beauty, etc.
Idealess (a.) Destitute of an idea.
Idealism (n.) The quality or state of being ideal.
Idealism (n.) Conception of the ideal; imagery.
Idealism (n.) The system or theory that denies the existence of material bodies, and teaches that we have no rational grounds to believe in the reality of anything but ideas and their relations.
Idealist (n.) One who idealizes; one who forms picturesque fancies; one given to romantic expectations.
Idealist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of idealism.
Idealistic (a.) Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.
Idealities (pl. ) of Ideality
Ideality (n.) The quality or state of being ideal.
Ideality (n.) The capacity to form ideals of beauty or perfection.
Ideality (n.) The conceptive faculty.
Idealization (n.) The act or process of idealizing.
Idealization (n.) The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the ideal.
Idealized (imp. & p. p.) of Idealize
Idealizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Idealize
Idealize (v. t.) To make ideal; to give an ideal form or value to; to attribute ideal characteristics and excellences to; as, to idealize real life.
Idealize (v. t.) To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2.
Idealize (v. i.) To form ideals.
Idealizer (n.) An idealist.
Ideally (adv.) In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally.
Idealogic (a.) Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization.
Idealogue (n.) One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a spectator.
Ideat (n.) Alt. of Ideate
Ideate (n.) The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.
Ideate (v. t.) To form in idea; to fancy.
Ideate (v. t.) To apprehend in thought so as to fix and hold in the mind; to memorize.
Ideation (n.) The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.
Ideational (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation.
Idem (pron. / adj.) The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.
Identic (a.) Identical.
Identical (a.) The same; the selfsame; the very same; not different; as, the identical person or thing.
Identical (a.) Uttering sameness or the same truth; expressing in the predicate what is given, or obviously implied, in the subject; tautological.
Identically (adv.) In an identical manner; with respect to identity.
Identicalness (n.) The quality or state of being identical; sameness.
Identifiable (a.) Capable of being identified.
Identification (n.) The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the state of being identified.
Identified (imp. & p. p.) of Identify
Identifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Identify
Identify (v. t.) To make to be the same; to unite or combine in such a manner as to make one; to treat as being one or having the same purpose or effect; to consider as the same in any relation.
Identify (v. t.) To establish the identity of; to prove to be the same with something described, claimed, or asserted; as, to identify stolen property.
Identify (v. i.) To become the same; to coalesce in interest, purpose, use, effect, etc.
Identism (n.) The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the system / doctrine of identity.
Identities (pl. ) of Identity
Identity (n.) The state or quality of being identical, or the same; sameness.
Identity (n.) The condition of being the same with something described or asserted, or of possessing a character claimed; as, to establish the identity of stolen goods.
Identity (n.) An identical equation.
Ideo- () A combining form from the Gr. /, an idea.
Ideogenical (a.) Of or relating to ideology.
Ideogeny (n.) The science which treats of the origin of ideas.
Ideogram (n.) An original, pictorial element of writing; a kind of hieroglyph expressing no sound, but only an idea.
Ideogram (n.) A symbol used for convenience, or for abbreviation; as, 1, 2, 3, +, -, /, $, /, etc.
Ideogram (n.) A phonetic symbol; a letter.
Ideograph (n.) Same as Ideogram.
Ideographic (a.) Alt. of Ideographical
Ideographical (a.) Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols, independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine," but the idea of the number itself.
Ideographics (n.) The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything so written.
Ideography (n.) The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc.
Ideological (a.) Of or pertaining to ideology.
Ideologist (n.) One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of ideology.
Ideology (n.) The science of ideas.
Ideology (n.) A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively from sensation.
Ideo-motion (n.) An ideo-motor movement.
Ideo-motor (a.) Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in speech, or in writing, while the mind is occupied in the composition of the sentence.
Ides (n. pl.) The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months.
Idio- () A combining form from the Greek /, meaning private, personal, peculiar, distinct.
Idioblast (n.) An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in regard to size, structure, or contents.
Idiocrasis (n.) Idiocracy.
Idiocrasies (pl. ) of Idiocracy
Idiocracy (n.) Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.
Idiocratic (a.) Alt. of Idiocratical
Idiocratical (a.) Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.
Idiocy (n.) The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence.
Idiocyclophanous (a.) Same as Idiophanous.
Idioelectric (a.) Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric.
Idioelectric (n.) An idioelectric substance.
Idiograph (n.) A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.
Idiographic (a.) Alt. of Idiographical
Idiographical (a.) Of or pertaining to an idiograph.
Idiolatry (n.) Self-worship; excessive self-esteem.
Idiom (n.) The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the genius or cast of a language.
Idiom (n.) An expression conforming or appropriate to the peculiar structural form of a language; in extend use, an expression sanctioned by usage, having a sense peculiar to itself and not agreeing with the logical sense of its structural form; also, the phrase forms peculiar to a particular author.
Idiom (n.) Dialect; a variant form of a language.
Idiomatic (a.) Alt. of Idiomatical
Idiomatical (a.) Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase.
Idiomorphic (a.) Idiomorphous.
Idiomorphous (a.) Having a form of its own.
Idiomorphous (a.) Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral constituents of a rock.
Idiomuscular (a.) Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by a mechanical irritant.
Idiopathetic (a.) Idiopathic.
Idiopathic (a.) Alt. of Idiopathical
Idiopathical (a.) Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; -- opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic.
Idiopathies (pl. ) of Idiopathy
Idiopathy (n.) A peculiar, or individual, characteristic or affection.
Idiopathy (n.) A morbid state or condition not preceded or occasioned by any other disease; a primary disease.
Idiophanous (a.) Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a polariscope, as certain crystals.
Idioplasm (n.) Same as Idioplasma.
Idioplasma (n.) That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is termed nutritive plasma. See Hygroplasm.
Idiorepulsive (a.) Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat.
Idiosyncrasies (pl. ) of Idiosyncrasy
Idiosyncrasy (n.) A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.
Idiosyncratic (a.) Alt. of Idiosyncratical
Idiosyncratical (a.) Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar and individual character.
Idiot (n.) A man in private station, as distinguished from one holding a public office.
Idiot (n.) An unlearned, ignorant, or simple person, as distinguished from the educated; an ignoramus.
Idiot (n.) A human being destitute of the ordinary intellectual powers, whether congenital, developmental, or accidental; commonly, a person without understanding from birth; a natural fool; a natural; an innocent.
Idiot (n.) A fool; a simpleton; -- a term of reproach.
Idiotcy (n.) Idiocy.
Idioted (a.) Rendered idiotic; befooled.
Idiothermic (a.) Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going on within itself.
Idiotic (a.) Alt. of Idiotical
Idiotical (a.) Common; simple.
Idiotical (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy; foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.
Idiotically (adv.) In a idiotic manner.
Idioticon (n.) A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary.
Idiotish (a.) Like an idiot; foolish.
Idiotism (n.) An idiom; a form, mode of expression, or signification, peculiar to a language.
Idiotism (n.) Lack of knowledge or mental capacity; idiocy; foolishness.
Idiotize (v. i.) To become stupid.
Idiotry (n.) Idiocy.
Idle (superl.) Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless; silly; barren.
Idle (superl.) Not called into active service; not turned to appropriate use; unemployed; as, idle hours.
Idle (superl.) Not employed; unoccupied with business; inactive; doing nothing; as, idle workmen.
Idle (superl.) Given rest and ease; averse to labor or employment; lazy; slothful; as, an idle fellow.
Idle (superl.) Light-headed; foolish.
Idled (imp. & p. p.) of Idle
Idling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Idle
Idle (v. i.) To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in business.
Idle (v. t.) To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed by away; as, to idle away an hour a day.
Idle-headed (a.) Foolish; stupid.
Idle-headed (a.) Delirious; infatuated.
Idleness (n.) The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity; laziness.
Idle-pated (a.) Idle-headed; stupid.
Idler (n.) One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person; a sluggard.
Idler (n.) One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no regular watch.
Idler (n.) An idle wheel or pulley. See under Idle.
Idless (n.) Alt. of Idlesse
Idlesse (n.) Idleness.
Idly (adv.) In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.) foolishly.
Idocrase (n.) Same as Vesuvianite.
Idol (n.) An image or representation of anything.
Idol (n.) An image of a divinity; a representation or symbol of a deity or any other being or thing, made or used as an object of worship; a similitude of a false god.
Idol (n.) That on which the affections are strongly (often excessively) set; an object of passionate devotion; a person or thing greatly loved or adored.
Idol (n.) A false notion or conception; a fallacy.
Idolastre (n.) An idolater.
Idolater (n.) A worshiper of idols; one who pays divine honors to images, statues, or representations of anything made by hands; one who worships as a deity that which is not God; a pagan.
Idolater (n.) An adorer; a great admirer.
Idolatress (n.) A female worshiper of idols.
Idolatrical (a.) Idolatrous.
Idolatrized (imp. & p. p.) of Idolatrize
Idolatrizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Idolatrize
Idolatrize (v. i.) To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship.
Idolatrize (v. t.) To make in idol of; to idolize.
Idolatrous (a.) Of or pertaining to idolatry; partaking of the nature of idolatry; given to idolatry or the worship of false gods; as, idolatrous sacrifices.
Idolatrous (a.) Consisting in, or partaking of, an excessive attachment or reverence; as, an idolatrous veneration for antiquity.
Idolatrously (adv.) In a idolatrous manner.
Idolatries (pl. ) of Idolatry
Idolatry (n.) The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the worship of false gods.
Idolatry (n.) Excessive attachment or veneration for anything; respect or love which borders on adoration.
Idolish (a.) Idolatrous.
Idolism (n.) The worship of idols.
Idolist (n.) A worshiper of idols.
Idolized (imp. & p. p.) of Idolize
Idolizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Idolize
Idolize (v. t.) To make an idol of; to pay idolatrous worship to; as, to idolize the sacred bull in Egypt.
Idolize (v. t.) To love to excess; to love or reverence to adoration; as, to idolize gold, children, a hero.
Idolize (v. i.) To practice idolatry.
Idolizer (n.) One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an idolater.
Idoloclast (n.) A breaker of idols; an iconoclast.
Idolographical (a.) Descriptive of idols.
Idolous (a.) Idolatrous.
Idoneous (a.) Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate.
Idorgan (n.) A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan. See Morphon.
Idrialine (n.) Alt. of Idrialite
Idrialite (n.) A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.
Idumean (a.) Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia.
Idumean (n.) An inhabitant of Idumea, an Edomite.
Idyl (n.) A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the like.
Idyllic (a.) Of or belonging to idyls.
I. e. () Abbreviation of Latin id est, that is.
If (conj.) In case that; granting, allowing, or supposing that; -- introducing a condition or supposition.
If (conj.) Whether; -- in dependent questions.
I' faith () In faith; indeed; truly.
Ifere (a.) Together.
Igasuric (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's bean; as, igasuric acid.
Igasurine (n.) An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Igloo (n.) An Eskimo snow house.
Igloo (n.) A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its breathing hole in the ice.
Ignatius bean () See Saint Ignatius's bean, under Saint.
Igneous (a.) Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire; resembling fire; as, an igneous appearance.
Igneous (a.) Resulting from, or produced by, the action of fire; as, lavas and basalt are igneous rocks.
Ignescent (a.) Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating; as, ignescent stones.
Ignicolist (n.) A worshiper of fire.
Igniferous (a.) Producing fire.
Ignifluous (a.) Flowing with fire.
Ignified (imp. & p. p.) of Ignify
Ignifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ignify
Ignify (v. t.) To form into fire.
Ignigenous (a.) Produced by the action of fire, as lava.
Ignipotence (n.) Power over fire.
Ignipotent (a.) Presiding over fire; also, fiery.
Ignes fatui (pl. ) of Ignis fatuus
Ignis fatuus () A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a-lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern.
Ignis fatuus () Fig.: A misleading influence; a decoy.
Ignited (imp. & p. p.) of Ignite
Igniting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ignite
Ignite (v. t.) To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood.
Ignite (v. t.) To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; -- often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite iron or platinum.
Ignite (v. i.) To take fire; to begin to burn.
Ignitible (a.) Capable of being ignited.
Ignition (n.) The act of igniting, kindling, or setting on fire.
Ignition (n.) The state of being ignited or kindled.
Ignitor (n.) One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like.
Ignivomous (a.) Vomiting fire.
Ignobility (n.) Ignobleness.
Ignoble (a.) Of low birth or family; not noble; not illustrious; plebeian; common; humble.
Ignoble (a.) Not honorable, elevated, or generous; base.
Ignoble (a.) Not a true or noble falcon; -- said of certain hawks, as the goshawk.
Ignoble (v. t.) To make ignoble.
Ignobleness (n.) State or quality of being ignoble.
Ignobly (adv.) In an ignoble manner; basely.
Ignominious (a.) Marked with ignominy; in curring public disgrace; dishonorable; shameful.
Ignominious (a.) Deserving ignominy; despicable.
Ignominious (a.) Humiliating; degrading; as, an ignominious judgment or sentence.
Ignominiously (adv.) In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully; ingloriously.
Ignominies (pl. ) of Ignominy
Ignominy (n.) Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
Ignominy (n.) An act deserving disgrace; an infamous act.
Ignomy (n.) Ignominy.
Ignoramus (n.) We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill. The phrase now used is, "No bill," "No true bill," or "Not found," though in some jurisdictions "Ignored" is still used.
Ignoramuses (pl. ) of Ignoramus
Ignoramus (n.) A stupid, ignorant person; a vain pretender to knowledge; a dunce.
Ignorance (n.) The condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general, or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated or uninformed.
Ignorance (n.) A willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may acquire and it is his duty to have.
Ignorant (a.) Destitute of knowledge; uninstructed or uninformed; untaught; unenlightened.
Ignorant (a.) Unacquainted with; unconscious or unaware; -- used with of.
Ignorant (a.) Unknown; undiscovered.
Ignorant (a.) Resulting from ignorance; foolish; silly.
Ignorant (n.) A person untaught or uninformed; one unlettered or unskilled; an ignoramous.
Ignorantism (n.) The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance; obscuriantism.
Ignorantist (n.) One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist.
Ignorantly (adv.) In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently.
Ignored (imp. & p. p.) of Ignore
Ignoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ignore
Ignore (v. t.) To be ignorant of or not acquainted with.
Ignore (v. t.) To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus.
Ignore (v. t.) Hence: To refuse to take notice of; to shut the eyes to; not to recognize; to disregard willfully and causelessly; as, to ignore certain facts; to ignore the presence of an objectionable person.
Ignoscible (a.) Pardonable.
Ignote (a.) Unknown.
Ignote (n.) One who is unknown.
Iguana (n.) Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidae. They are arboreal in their habits, usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits.
Iguanian (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana.
Iguanid (a.) Same as Iguanoid.
Iguanodon (n.) A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting the entire body. Its teeth resemble those of the iguana, whence its name. Several species are known, mostly from the Wealden of England and Europe. See Illustration in Appendix.
Iguanodont (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon.
Iguanoid (a.) Pertaining to the Iguanidae.
Ihlang-ihlang (n.) A rich, powerful, perfume, obtained from the volatile oil of the flowers of Canada odorata, an East Indian tree.
Ihram (n.) The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca.
Ik (pron.) I.
Il- () A form of the prefix in-, not, and in-, among. See In-.
Ile (n.) Ear of corn.
Ile (n.) An aisle.
Ile (n.) An isle.
Ileac (a.) Pertaining to the ileum.
Ileac (a.) See Iliac, 1.
Ileocaecal (a.) Pertaining to the ileum and caecum.
Ileocolic (a.) Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or ileocaecal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large intestine.
Ileum (n.) The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine.
Ileum (n.) See Ilium.
Ileus (n.) A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, / iliac, passion.
Ilex (n.) The holm oak (Quercus Ilex).
Ilex (n.) A genus of evergreen trees and shrubs, including the common holly.
Iliac (a.) Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy.
Iliac (a.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery.
Iliac (a.) See Ileac, 1.
Iliacal (a.) Iliac.
liad (n.) A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to Homer.
Ilial (a.) Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.
Iliche (adv.) Alike.
Ilicic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied plants; as, ilicic acid.
Ilicin (n.) The bitter principle of the holly.
Ilio- () A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas, etc.
Iliofemoral (a.) Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments.
Iliolumbar (a.) Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar artery.
Iliopsoas (n.) The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct muscles.
Ilium (n.) The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate.
Ilixanthin (n.) A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly.
Ilk (a.) Same; each; every.
Ilke (a.) Same.
Ilkon (pron.) Alt. of Ilkoon
Ilkoon (pron.) Each one; every one.
Ill (a.) Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable; unfavorable.
Ill (a.) Contrary to good, in a moral sense; evil; wicked; wrong; iniquitious; naughtly; bad; improper.
Ill (a.) Sick; indisposed; unwell; diseased; disordered; as, ill of a fever.
Ill (a.) Not according with rule, fitness, or propriety; incorrect; rude; unpolished; inelegant.
Ill (n.) Whatever annoys or impairs happiness, or prevents success; evil of any kind; misfortune; calamity; disease; pain; as, the ills of humanity.
Ill (n.) Whatever is contrary to good, in a moral sense; wickedness; depravity; iniquity; wrong; evil.
Ill (adv.) In a ill manner; badly; weakly.
I' ll () Contraction for I will or I shall.
Illabile (a.) Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable.
Illacerable (a.) Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent.
Illacrymable (a.) Incapable of weeping.
Illapsable (a.) Incapable of slipping, or of error.
Illapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Illapse
Illapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illapse
Illapse (v. i.) To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into.
Illapse (v. i.) A gliding in; an immisson or entrance of one thing into another; also, a sudden descent or attack.
Illaqueable (a.) Capable of being insnared or entrapped.
Illaqueated (imp. & p. p.) of Illaqueate
Illaqueating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illaqueate
Illaqueate (v. t.) To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch.
Illaqueation (n.) The act of catching or insnaring.
Illaqueation (n.) A snare; a trap.
Illation (n.) The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons; perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred; inference; deduction; conclusion.
Illative (a.) Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential; conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative word, as then, therefore, etc.
Illative (n.) An illative particle, as for, because.
Illatively (adv.) By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner.
Illaudable (a.) Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or disapprobation.
Ill-boding (a.) Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened.
Ill-bred (a.) Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note under Ill, adv.
Illecebration (n.) Allurement.
Illecebrous (a.) Alluring; attractive; enticing.
Illegal (a.) Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to, or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as, an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love.
Illegalities (pl. ) of Illegality
Illegality (n.) The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as, the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal act.
Illegalized (imp. & p. p.) of Illegalize
Illegalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illegalize
Illegalize (v. t.) To make or declare illegal or unlawful.
Illegally (adv.) In a illegal manner; unlawfully.
Illegalness (n.) Illegality, unlawfulness.
Illegibility (n.) The state or quality of being illegible.
Illegible (a.) Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible handwriting; an illegible inscription.
Illegitimacy (n.) The state of being illegitimate.
Illegitimate (a.) Not according to law; not regular or authorized; unlawful; improper.
Illegitimate (a.) Unlawfully begotten; born out of wedlock; bastard; as, an illegitimate child.
Illegitimate (a.) Not legitimately deduced or inferred; illogical; as, an illegitimate inference.
Illegitimate (a.) Not authorized by good usage; not genuine; spurious; as, an illegitimate word.
Illegitimated (imp. & p. p.) of Illegitimate
Illegitimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illegitimate
Illegitimate (v. t.) To render illegitimate; to declare or prove to be born out of wedlock; to bastardize; to illegitimatize.
Illegitimately (adv.) In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully.
Illegitimation (n.) The act of illegitimating; bastardizing.
Illegitimation (n.) The state of being illegitimate; illegitimacy.
Illegitimatize (v. t.) To render illegitimate; to bastardize.
Illesive (a.) Not injurious; harmless.
Illeviable (a.) Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected.
Ill-favored (a.) Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking.
Illiberal (a.) Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
Illiberal (a.) Indicating a lack of breeding, culture, and the like; ignoble; rude; narrow-minded; disingenuous.
Illiberal (a.) Not well authorized or elegant; as, illiberal words in Latin.
Illiberalism (n.) Illiberality.
Illiberality (n.) The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind; meanness; niggardliness.
Illiberalized (imp. & p. p.) of Illiberalize
Illiberalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illiberalize
Illiberalize (v. t.) To make illiberal.
Illiberally (adv.) In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably; parsimoniously.
Illiberalness (n.) The state of being illiberal; illiberality.
Illicit (a.) Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
Illicitous (a.) Illicit.
Illicium (n.) A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having star-shaped fruit; star anise. The fruit of Illicium anisatum is used as a spice in India, and its oil is largely used in Europe for flavoring cordials, being almost identical with true oil of anise.
Illighten (v. t.) To enlighten.
Illimitable (a.) Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless; boundless; as, illimitable space.
Illimitation (n.) State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from, limitation.
Illimited (a.) Not limited; interminable.
Illinition (n.) A smearing or rubbing in or on; also, that which is smeared or rubbed on, as ointment or liniment.
Illinition (n.) A thin crust of some extraneous substance formed on minerals.
Illinois (n.sing. & pl.) A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers.
Illiquation (n.) The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.
Illish (a.) Somewhat ill.
Illision (n.) The act of dashing or striking against.
Illiteracies (pl. ) of Illiteracy
Illiteracy (n.) The state of being illiterate, or uneducated; want of learning, or knowledge; ignorance; specifically, inability to read and write; as, the illiteracy shown by the last census.
Illiteracy (n.) An instance of ignorance; a literary blunder.
Illiteral (a.) Not literal.
Illiterate (a.) Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed; uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.
Illiterature (n.) Want of learning; illiteracy.
Ill-judged (a.) Not well judged; unwise.
Ill-lived (a.) Leading a wicked life.
Ill-looking (a.) Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.
Ill-mannered (a.) Impolite; rude.
Ill-minded (a.) Ill-disposed.
Ill-natured (a.) Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly; as, an ill-natured person.
Ill-natured (a.) Dictated by, or indicating, ill nature; spiteful.
Ill-natured (a.) Intractable; not yielding to culture.
Illness (n.) The condition of being ill, evil, or bad; badness; unfavorableness.
Illness (n.) Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as, a short or a severe illness.
Illness (n.) Wrong moral conduct; wickedness.
Ill-nurtured (a.) Ill-bred.
Illocality (n.) Want of locality or place.
Illogical (a.) Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference.
Ill-omened (a.) Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.
Ill-starred (a.) Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or day.
Ill-tempered (a.) Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful; quarrelsome.
Ill-tempered (a.) Unhealthy; ill-conditioned.
Ill-timed (a.) Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious time.
Illtreat (v. t.) To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat.
Illuded (imp. & p. p.) of Illude
Illuding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illude
Illude (v. t.) To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of.
Illumed (imp. & p. p.) of Illume
Illuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illume
Illume (v. t.) To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine.
Illuminable (a.) Capable of being illuminated.
Illuminant (n.) That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum are illuminants.
Illuminary (a.) Illuminative.
Illuminated (imp. & p. p.) of Illuminate
Illuminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illuminate
Illuminate (v. t.) To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally or figuratively; to brighten.
Illuminate (v. t.) To light up; to decorate with artificial lights, as a building or city, in token of rejoicing or respect.
Illuminate (v. t.) To adorn, as a book or page with borders, initial letters, or miniature pictures in colors and gold, as was done in manuscripts of the Middle Ages.
Illuminate (v. t.) To make plain or clear; to dispel the obscurity to by knowledge or reason; to explain; to elucidate; as, to illuminate a text, a problem, or a duty.
Illuminate (v. i.) To light up in token or rejoicing.
Illuminate (a.) Enlightened.
Illuminate (n.) One who enlightened; esp., a pretender to extraordinary light and knowledge.
Illuminati (v. t.) Literally, those who are enlightened
Illuminati (v. t.) Persons in the early church who had received baptism; in which ceremony a lighted taper was given them, as a symbol of the spiritual illumination they has received by that sacrament.
Illuminati (v. t.) Members of a sect which sprung up in Spain about the year 1575. Their principal doctrine was, that, by means of prayer, they had attained to so perfect a state as to have no need of ordinances, sacraments, good works, etc.; -- called also Alumbrados, Perfectibilists, etc.
Illuminati (v. t.) Members of certain associations in Modern Europe, who combined to promote social reforms, by which they expected to raise men and society to perfection, esp. of one originated in 1776 by Adam Weishaupt, professor of canon law at Ingolstadt, which spread rapidly for a time, but ceased after a few years.
Illuminati (v. t.) An obscure sect of French Familists;
Illuminati (v. t.) The Hesychasts, Mystics, and Quietists;
Illuminati (v. t.) The Rosicrucians.
Illuminati (v. t.) Any persons who profess special spiritual or intellectual enlightenment.
Illuminating (a.) Giving or producing light; used for illumination.
Illumination (n.) The act of illuminating, or supplying with light; the state of being illuminated.
Illumination (n.) Festive decoration of houses or buildings with lights.
Illumination (n.) Adornment of books and manuscripts with colored illustrations. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.
Illumination (v. t.) That which is illuminated, as a house; also, an ornamented book or manuscript.
Illumination (v. t.) That which illuminates or gives light; brightness; splendor; especially, intellectual light or knowledge.
Illumination (v. t.) The special communication of knowledge to the mind by God; inspiration.
Illuminatism (n.) Illuminism.
Illuminative (a.) Tending to illuminate or illustrate; throwing light; illustrative.
Illuminator (n.) One whose occupation is to adorn books, especially manuscripts, with miniatures, borders, etc. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.
Illuminator (v. t.) A condenser or reflector of light in optical apparatus; also, an illuminant.
Illumine (v. t.) To illuminate; to light up; to adorn.
Illuminee (n.) One of the Illuminati.
Illuminer (n.) One who, or that which, illuminates.
Illuminism (n.) The principles of the Illuminati.
Illuministic (a.) Of or pertaining to illuminism, or the Illuminati.
Illuminized (imp. & p. p.) of Illuminize
Illuminizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illuminize
Illuminize (v. t.) To initiate the doctrines or principles of the Illuminati.
Illuminous (a.) Bright; clear.
Illure (v. t.) To deceive; to entice; to lure.
Ill-used (a.) Misapplied; treated badly.
Illusion (n.) An unreal image presented to the bodily or mental vision; a deceptive appearance; a false show; mockery; hallucination.
Illusion (n.) Hence: Anything agreeably fascinating and charning; enchantment; witchery; glamour.
Illusion (n.) A sensation originated by some external object, but so modified as in any way to lead to an erroneous perception; as when the rolling of a wagon is mistaken for thunder.
Illusion (n.) A plain, delicate lace, usually of silk, used for veils, scarfs, dresses, etc.
Illusionable (a.) Liable to illusion.
Illusionist (n.) One given to illusion; a visionary dreamer.
Illusive (a.) Deceiving by false show; deceitful; deceptive; false; illusory; unreal.
Illusively (adv.) In a illusive manner; falsely.
Illusiveness (n.) The quality of being illusive; deceptiveness; false show.
Illusory (a.) Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive; as, illusory promises or hopes.
Illustrable (a.) Capable of illustration.
Illustrated (imp. & p. p.) of Illustrate
Illustrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Illustrate
Illustrate (v. t.) To make clear, bright, or luminous.
Illustrate (v. t.) To set in a clear light; to exhibit distinctly or conspicuously.
Illustrate (v. t.) To make clear, intelligible, or apprehensible; to elucidate, explain, or exemplify, as by means of figures, comparisons, and examples.
Illustrate (v. t.) To adorn with pictures, as a book or a subject; to elucidate with pictures, as a history or a romance.
Illustrate (v. t.) To give renown or honor to; to make illustrious; to glorify.
Illustrate (a.) Illustrated; distinguished; illustrious.
Illustration (n.) The act of illustrating; the act of making clear and distinct; education; also, the state of being illustrated, or of being made clear and distinct.
Illustration (n.) That which illustrates; a comparison or example intended to make clear or apprehensible, or to remove obscurity.
Illustration (n.) A picture designed to decorate a volume or elucidate a literary work.
Illustrative (a.) Tending or designed to illustrate, exemplify, or elucidate.
Illustrative (a.) Making illustrious.
Illustratively (adv.) By way of illustration or elucidation.
Illustrator (n.) One who illustrates.
Illustratory (a.) Serving to illustrate.
Illustrious (a.) Possessing luster or brightness; brilliant; luminous; splendid.
Illustrious (a.) Characterized by greatness, nobleness, etc.; eminent; conspicuous; distinguished.
Illustrious (a.) Conferring luster or honor; renowned; as, illustrious deeds or titles.
Illustriously (adv.) In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously.
Illustriousness (n.) The state or quality of being eminent; greatness; grandeur; glory; fame.
Illustrous (a.) Without luster.
Illutation (n.) The act or operation of smearing the body with mud, especially with the sediment from mineral springs; a mud bath.
Illuxurious (a.) Not luxurious.
Ill-will () See under Ill, a.
Ill-wisher (n.) One who wishes ill to another; an enemy.
Ilmenite (n.) Titanic iron. See Menaccanite.
Ilmenium (n.) A supposed element claimed to have been discovered by R.Harmann.
Ilvaite (n.) A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals and columnar masses.
I'm () A contraction of I am.
Im- () A form of the prefix in- not, and in- in. See In-. Im- also occurs in composition with some words not of Latin origin; as, imbank, imbitter.
Image (n.) An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing, or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a picture; a semblance.
Image (n.) Hence: The likeness of anything to which worship is paid; an idol.
Image (n.) Show; appearance; cast.
Image (n.) A representation of anything to the mind; a picture drawn by the fancy; a conception; an idea.
Image (n.) A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended metaphor.
Image (n.) The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the object symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points in such focus; this may be received on a screen, a photographic plate, or the retina of the eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or with an eyeglass, as in the telescope and microscope; the likeness of an object formed by reflection; as, to see one's image in a mirror.
Imaged (imp. & p. p.) of Image
Imaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Image
Image (v. t.) To represent or form an image of; as, the still lake imaged the shore; the mirror imaged her figure.
Image (v. t.) To represent to the mental vision; to form a likeness of by the fancy or recollection; to imagine.
Imageable (a.) That may be imaged.
Imageless (a.) Having no image.
Imager (n.) One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor.
Imagery (n.) The work of one who makes images or visible representation of objects; imitation work; images in general, or in mass.
Imagery (n.) Fig.: Unreal show; imitation; appearance.
Imagery (n.) The work of the imagination or fancy; false ideas; imaginary phantasms.
Imagery (n.) Rhetorical decoration in writing or speaking; vivid descriptions presenting or suggesting images of sensible objects; figures in discourse.
Imaginability (n.) Capacity for imagination.
Imaginable (a.) Capable of being imagined; conceivable.
Imaginal (a.) Characterized by imagination; imaginative; also, given to the use or rhetorical figures or imagins.
Imaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to an imago.
Imaginant (a.) Imagining; conceiving.
Imaginant (n.) An imaginer.
Imaginarily (a.) In a imaginary manner; in imagination.
Imaginariness (n.) The state or quality of being imaginary; unreality.
Imaginary (a.) Existing only in imagination or fancy; not real; fancied; visionary; ideal.
Imaginary (n.) An imaginary expression or quantity.
Imaginate (a.) Imaginative.
Imagination (n.) The imagine-making power of the mind; the power to create or reproduce ideally an object of sense previously perceived; the power to call up mental imagines.
Imagination (n.) The representative power; the power to reconstruct or recombine the materials furnished by direct apprehension; the complex faculty usually termed the plastic or creative power; the fancy.
Imagination (n.) The power to recombine the materials furnished by experience or memory, for the accomplishment of an elevated purpose; the power of conceiving and expressing the ideal.
Imagination (n.) A mental image formed by the action of the imagination as a faculty; a conception; a notion.
Imaginational (a.) Pertaining to, involving, or caused by, imagination.
Imaginationalism (n.) Idealism.
Imaginative (a.) Proceeding from, and characterized by, the imagination, generally in the highest sense of the word.
Imaginative (a.) Given to imagining; full of images, fancies, etc.; having a quick imagination; conceptive; creative.
Imaginative (a.) Unreasonably suspicious; jealous.
Imagined (imp. & p. p.) of Imagine
Imagining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imagine
Imagine (v. t.) To form in the mind a notion or idea of; to form a mental image of; to conceive; to produce by the imagination.
Imagine (v. t.) To contrive in purpose; to scheme; to devise; to compass; to purpose. See Compass, v. t., 5.
Imagine (v. t.) To represent to one's self; to think; to believe.
Imagine (v. i.) To form images or conceptions; to conceive; to devise.
Imagine (v. i.) To think; to suppose.
Imaginer (n.) One who forms ideas or conceptions; one who contrives.
Imaginous (a.) Imaginative.
Imagoes (pl. ) of Imago
Imago (n.) An image.
Imago (n.) The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm.
Imam (n.) Alt. of Imaum
Iman (n.) Alt. of Imaum
Imaum (n.) Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.
Imaum (n.) A Mohammedan prince who, as a successor of Mohammed, unites in his person supreme spiritual and temporal power.
Imaret (n.) A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims.
Imbalm (v. t.) See Embalm.
Imban (v. t.) To put under a ban.
Imband (v. t.) To form into a band or bands.
Imbanked (imp. & p. p.) of Imbank
Imbanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbank
Imbank (v. t.) To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank.
Imbankment (n.) The act of surrounding with a bank; a bank or mound raised for defense, a roadway, etc.; an embankment. See Embankment.
Imbannered (a.) Having banners.
Imbar (v. t.) To bar in; to secure.
Imbargo (n.) See Embargo.
Imbark (v. i. & t.) See Embark.
Imbarn (v. t.) To store in a barn.
Imbase (v. t.) See Embase.
Imbase (v. i.) To diminish in value.
Imbastardize (v. t.) To bastardize; to debase.
Imbathe (v. t.) To bathe; to wash freely; to immerce.
Imbay (v. t.) See Embay.
Imbecile (a.) Destitute of strength, whether of body or mind; feeble; impotent; esp., mentally wea; feeble-minded; as, hospitals for the imbecile and insane.
Imbecile (n.) One destitute of strength; esp., one of feeble mind.
Imbecile (v. t.) To weaken; to make imbecile; as, to imbecile men's courage.
Imbecilitate (v. t.) To weaken, as to the body or the mind; to enfeeble.
Imbecilities (pl. ) of Imbecility
Imbecility (n.) The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of mind.
Imbedded (imp. & p. p.) of Imbed
Imbedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbed
Imbed (v. t.) To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc.
Imbellic (a.) Not warlike or martial.
Imbenching (n.) A raised work like a bench.
Imber-goose (n.) The loon. See Ember-goose.
Imbezzle (v. t.) See Embezzle.
Imbibed (imp. & p. p.) of Imbibe
Imbibing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbibe
Imbibe (v. t.) To drink in; to absorb; to suck or take in; to receive as by drinking; as, a person imbibes drink, or a sponge imbibes moisture.
Imbibe (v. t.) To receive or absorb into the mind and retain; as, to imbibe principles; to imbibe errors.
Imbibe (v. t.) To saturate; to imbue.
Imbiber (n.) One who, or that which, imbibes.
Imbibition (n.) The act or process of imbibing, or absorbing; as, the post-mortem imbibition of poisons.
Imbittered (imp. & p. p.) of Imbitter
Imbittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbitter
Imbitter (v. t.) To make bitter; hence, to make distressing or more distressing; to make sad, morose, sour, or malignant.
Imbitterer (n.) One who, or that which, imbitters.
Imbitterment (n.) The act of imbittering; bitter feeling; embitterment.
Imblaze (v. t.) See Emblaze.
Imblazon (v. t.) See Emblazon.
Imbody (v. i.) To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody.
Imboil (v. t. & i.) See Emboil.
Imbolden (v. t.) See Embolden.
Imbonity (n.) Want of goodness.
Imbordered (imp. & p. p.) of Imborder
Imbordering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imborder
Imborder (v. t.) To furnish or inclose with a border; to form a border of.
Imbosked (imp. & p. p.) of Imbosk
Imbosking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbosk
Imbosk (v. t.) To conceal, as in bushes; to hide.
Imbosk (v. i.) To be concealed.
Imbosomed (imp. & p. p.) of Imbosom
Imbosoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbosom
Imbosom (v. t.) To hold in the bosom; to cherish in the heart or affection; to embosom.
Imbosom (v. t.) To inclose or place in the midst of; to surround or shelter; as, a house imbosomed in a grove.
Imboss (v. t.) See Emboss.
Imbosture (n.) Embossed or raised work.
Imbound (v. t.) To inclose in limits; to shut in.
Imbow (v. t.) To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow.
Imbowel (v. t.) See Embowel.
Imbower (v. t. & i.) See Embower.
Imbowment (n.) act of imbowing; an arch; a vault.
Imbox (v. t.) To inclose in a box.
Imbracery (n.) Embracery.
Imbraid (v. t.) See Embraid.
Imbrangle (v. t.) To entangle as in a cobweb; to mix confusedly.
Imbreed (v. t.) To generate within; to inbreed.
Imbricate (a.) Alt. of Imbricated
Imbricated (a.) Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.
Imbricated (a.) Lying over each other in regular order, so as to "break joints," like tiles or shingles on a roof, the scales on the leaf buds of plants and the cups of some acorns, or the scales of fishes; overlapping each other at the margins, as leaves in aestivation.
Imbricated (a.) In decorative art: Having scales lapping one over the other, or a representation of such scales; as, an imbricated surface; an imbricated pattern.
Imbricate (v. t.) To lay in order, one lapping over another, so as to form an imbricated surface.
Imbrication (n.) An overlapping of the edges, like that of tiles or shingles; hence, intricacy of structure; also, a pattern or decoration representing such a structure.
Imbricative (a.) Imbricate.
Imbrocadoes (pl. ) of Imbrocado
Imbrocado (n.) Cloth of silver or of gold.
Imbrocata (n.) Alt. of Imbroccata
Imbroccata (n.) A hit or thrust.
Imbroglios (pl. ) of Imbroglio
Imbroglio (n.) An intricate, complicated plot, as of a drama or work of fiction.
Imbroglio (n.) A complicated and embarrassing state of things; a serious misunderstanding.
Imbrown (v. t.) To make brown; to obscure; to darken; to tan; as, features imbrowned by exposure.
Imbureed (imp. & p. p.) of Imbrue
Imbureing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbrue
Imbrue (v. t.) To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood.
Imbruement (n.) The act of imbruing or state of being imbrued.
Imbruted (imp. & p. p.) of Imbrute
Imbruting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbrute
Imbrute (v. t.) To degrade to the state of a brute; to make brutal.
Imbrute (v. i.) To sink to the state of a brute.
Imbrutement (n.) The act of imbruting, or the state of being imbruted.
Imbued (imp. & p. p.) of Imbue
Imbuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imbue
Imbue (v. t.) To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb; as, clothes thoroughly imbued with black.
Imbue (v. t.) To tincture deply; to cause to become impressed or penetrated; as, to imbue the minds of youth with good principles.
Imbuement (n.) The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep tincture.
Imburse (v. t.) To supply or stock with money.
Imbursement (n.) The act of imbursing, or the state of being imbursed.
Imbursement (n.) Money laid up in stock.
Imbution (n.) An imbuing.
Imesatin (n.) A dark yellow, crystalline substance, obtained by the action of ammonia on isatin.
Imide (n.) A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; -- frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide.
Imido (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group.
Imitability (n.) The quality of being imitable.
Imitable (a.) Capble of being imitated or copied.
Imitable (a.) Worthy of imitation; as, imitable character or qualities.
Imitableness (n.) The state or quality of being imitable; worthness of imitation.
Imitancy (n.) Tendency to imitation.
Imitated (imp. & p. p.) of Imitate
Imitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imitate
Imitate (v. t.) To follow as a pattern, model, or example; to copy or strive to copy, in acts, manners etc.
Imitate (v. t.) To produce a semblance or likeness of, in form, character, color, qualities, conduct, manners, and the like; to counterfeit; to copy.
Imitate (v. t.) To resemble (another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object) in form, color, ornamentation, or instinctive habits, so as to derive an advantage thereby; sa, when a harmless snake imitates a venomous one in color and manner, or when an odorless insect imitates, in color, one having secretion offensive to birds.
Imitation (n.) The act of imitating.
Imitation (n.) That which is made or produced as a copy; that which is made to resemble something else, whether for laudable or for fraudulent purposes; likeness; resemblance.
Imitation (n.) One of the principal means of securing unity and consistency in polyphonic composition; the repetition of essentially the same melodic theme, phrase, or motive, on different degrees of pitch, by one or more of the other parts of voises. Cf. Canon.
Imitation (n.) The act of condition of imitating another species of animal, or a plant, or unanimate object. See Imitate, v. t., 3.
Imitational (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, imitation; as, imitational propensities.
Imitative (a.) Inclined to imitate, copy, or follow; imitating; exhibiting some of the qualities or characteristics of a pattern or model; dependent on example; not original; as, man is an imitative being; painting is an imitative art.
Imitative (a.) Formed after a model, pattern, or original.
Imitative (a.) Designed to imitate another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object, for some useful purpose, such as protection from enemies; having resamblance to something else; as, imitative colors; imitative habits; dendritic and mammillary forms of minerals are imitative.
Imitative (n.) A verb expressive of imitation or resemblance.
Imitater (n.) One who imitates.
Imitatorship (n.) The state or office of an imitator.
Imitatress (n.) A woman who is an imitator.
Imitatrix (n.) An imitatress.
Immaculate (a.) Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure.
Immailed (a.) Wearing mail or armor; clad of armor.
Immalleable (a.) Not maleable.
Immanacled (imp. & p. p.) of Immanacle
Immanacling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immanacle
Immanacle (v. t.) To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from free action.
Immanation (n.) A flowing or entering in; -- opposed to emanation.
Immane (a.) Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce.
Immanence (n.) Alt. of Immanency
Immanency (n.) The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an indwelling.
Immanent (a.) Remaining within; inherent; indwelling; abiding; intrinsic; internal or subjective; hence, limited in activity, agency, or effect, to the subject or associated acts; -- opposed to emanant, transitory, transitive, or objective.
Immanifest (a.) Not manifest.
Immanity (n.) The state or quality of being immane; barbarity.
Immantle (v. t.) See Emmantle.
Immanuel (n.) God with us; -- an appellation of the Christ.
Immarcescible (a.) Unfading; lasting.
Immarcescibly (adv.) Unfadingly.
Immarginate (a.) Not having a distinctive margin or border.
Immartial (a.) Not martial; unwarlike.
Immask (v. t.) To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal.
Immatchable (a.) Matchless; peerless.
Immaterial (a.) Not consisting of matter; incorporeal; spiritual; disembodied.
Immaterial (a.) Of no substantial consequence; without weight or significance; unimportant; as, it is wholly immaterial whether he does so or not.
Immaterialism (n.) The doctrine that immaterial substances or spiritual being exist, or are possible.
Immaterialism (n.) The doctrine that external bodies may be reduced to mind and ideas in a mind; any doctrine opposed to materialism or phenomenalism, esp. a system that maintains the immateriality of the soul; idealism; esp., Bishop Berkeley's theory of idealism.
Immaterialist (n.) One who believes in or professes, immaterialism.
Immaterialities (pl. ) of Immateriality
Immateriality (n.) The state or quality of being immaterial or incorporeal; as, the immateriality of the soul.
Immaterialize (v. t.) To render immaterial or incorporeal.
Immaterially (adv.) In an immaterial manner; without matter or corporeal substance.
Immaterially (adv.) In an unimportant manner or degree.
Immaterialness (n.) The state or quality of being immaterial; immateriality.
Immateriate (a.) Immaterial.
Immature (a.) Not mature; unripe; not arrived at perfection of full development; crude; unfinished; as, immature fruit; immature character; immature plans.
Immature (a.) Premature; untimely; too early; as, an immature death.
Immatured (a.) Immature.
Immaturely (adv.) In an immature manner.
Immatureness (n.) The state or quality of being immature; immaturity.
Immaturity (n.) The state or quality of being immature or not fully developed; unripeness; incompleteness.
Immeability (n.) Want of power to pass, or to permit passage; impassableness.
Immeasurability (n.) The quality of being immeasurable; immensurability.
Immeasurable (a.) Incapble of being measured; indefinitely extensive; illimitable; immensurable; vast.
Immeasurableness (n.) The state or quality of being immeasurable.
Immeasurably (adv.) In an immeasurable manner or degree.
Immeasured (a.) Immeasurable.
Immechanical (a.) Not mechanical.
Immediacy (n.) The relation of freedom from the interventionof a medium; immediateness.
Immediate (a.) Not separated in respect to place by anything intervening; proximate; close; as, immediate contact.
Immediate (a.) Not deferred by an interval of time; present; instant.
Immediate (a.) Acting with nothing interposed or between, or without the intervention of another object as a cause, means, or agency; acting, perceived, or produced, directly; as, an immediate cause.
Immediately (adv.) In an immediate manner; without intervention of any other person or thing; proximately; directly; -- opposed to mediately; as, immediately contiguous.
Immediately (adv.) Without interval of time; without delay; promptly; instantly; at once.
Immediately (adv.) As soon as. Cf. Directly, 8, Note.
Immediateness (n.) The quality or relations of being immediate in manner, place, or time; exemption from second or interventing causes.
Immedeatism (n.) Immediateness.
Immedicable (a.) Not to be healed; incurable.
Immelodious (a.) Not melodious.
Immemorable (a.) Not memorable; not worth remembering.
Immemorial (a.) Extending beyond the reach of memory, record, or tradition; indefinitely ancient; as, existing from time immemorial.
Immemorially (adv.) Beyond memory.
Immense (a.) Immeasurable; unlimited. In commonest use: Very great; vast; huge.
Immensely (adv.) In immense manner or degree.
Immenseness (n.) The state of being immense.
Immensible (a.) Immeasurable.
Immensities (pl. ) of Immensity
Immensity (n.) The state or quality of being immense; inlimited or immeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk; greatness.
Immensive (a.) Huge.
Immensurability (n.) The quality of being immensurable.
Immensurable (a.) Immeasurable.
Immensurate (a.) Unmeasured; unlimited.
Immerged (imp. & p. p.) of Immerge
Immerging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immerge
Immerge (v. t.) To plungel into, under, or within anything especially a fuid; to dip; to immerse. See Immerse.
Immerge (v. i.) To dissapear by entering into any medium, as a star into the light of the sun.
Immerit (n.) Want of worth; demerit.
Immerited (a.) Unmerited.
Immeritous (a.) Undeserving.
Immersable (a.) See Immersible.
Immerse (a.) Immersed; buried; hid; sunk.
Immersed (imp. & p. p.) of Immerse
Immersing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immerse
Immerse (v. t.) To plunge into anything that surrounds or covers, especially into a fluid; to dip; to sink; to bury; to immerge.
Immerse (v. t.) To baptize by immersion.
Immerse (v. t.) To engage deeply; to engross the attention of; to involve; to overhelm.
Immersed (p. p. & a.) Deeply plunged into anything, especially a fluid.
Immersed (p. p. & a.) Deeply occupied; engrossed; entangled.
Immersed (p. p. & a.) Growing wholly under water.
Immersible (a.) Capable of being immersed.
Immersible (a.) Not capable of being immersed.
Immersion (n.) The act of immersing, or the state of being immersed; a sinking within a fluid; a dipping; as, the immersion of Achilles in the Styx.
Immersion (n.) Submersion in water for the purpose of Christian baptism, as, practiced by the Baptists.
Immersion (n.) The state of being overhelmed or deeply absorbed; deep engagedness.
Immersion (n.) The dissapearance of a celestail body, by passing either behind another, as in the occultation of a star, or into its shadow, as in the eclipse of a satellite; -- opposed to emersion.
Immersionist (n.) One who holds the doctrine that immersion is essential to Christian baptism.
Immeshed (imp. & p. p.) of Immesh
Immeshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immesh
Immesh (v. t.) To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare.
Immethodical (a.) Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement; without order or regularity; confused.
Immethodically (adv.) Without method; confusedly; unsystematically.
Immethodicalness (n.) Want of method.
Immethodize (v. t.) To render immethodical; to destroy the method of; to confuse.
Immetrical (a.) Not metrical or rhythmical.
Immew (v. t.) See Emmew.
Immigrant (n.) One who immigrates; one who comes to a country for the purpose of permanent residence; -- correlative of emigrant.
Immigrated (imp. & p. p.) of Immigrate
Immigrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immigrate
Immigrate (v. t.) To come into a country of which one is not a native, for the purpose of permanent residence. See Emigrate.
Immigration (n.) The act of immigrating; the passing or coming into a country for the purpose of permanent residence.
Imminence (n.) The condition or quality of being imminent; a threatening, as of something about to happen. The imminence of any danger or distress.
Imminence (n.) That which is imminent; impending evil or danger.
Imminent (a.) Threatening to occur immediately; near at hand; impending; -- said especially of misfortune or peril.
Imminent (a.) Full of danger; threatening; menacing; perilous.
Imminent (a.) (With upon) Bent upon; attentive to.
Imminently (adv.) In an imminent manner.
Immingle (v. t.) To mingle; to mix; to unite; to blend.
Imminution (n.) A lessening; diminution; decrease.
Immiscibility (n.) Incapability of being mixed, or mingled.
Immiscible (a.) Not capable of being mixed or mingled.
Immission (n.) The act of immitting, or of sending or thrusting in; injection; -- the correlative of emission.
Immitted (imp. & p. p.) of Immit
Immiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immit
Immit (v. t.) To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit.
Immitigable (a.) Not capable of being mitigated, softened, or appeased.
Immitigably (adv.) In an immitigable manner.
Immix (v. t.) To mix; to mingle.
Immixable (a.) Not mixable.
Immixed (a.) Unmixed.
Immixture (n.) Freedom from mixture; purity.
Immobile (a.) Incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable.
Immobility (n.) The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place or state.
Immobilize (v. t.) To make immovable; in surgery, to make immovable (a naturally mobile part, as a joint) by the use of splints, or stiffened bandages.
Immoble (a.) See Immobile.
Immoderacy (n.) Immoderateness.
Immoderancy (n.) Immoderateness; excess.
Immoderate (a.) Not moderate; exceeding just or usual and suitable bounds; excessive; extravagant; unreasonable; as, immoderate demands; immoderate grief; immoderate laughter.
Immoderately (adv.) In an immoderate manner; excessively.
Immoderateness (n.) The quality of being immoderate; excess; extravagance.
Immoderation (n.) Want of moderation.
Immodest (a.) Not limited to due bounds; immoderate.
Immodest (a.) Not modest; wanting in the reserve or restraint which decorum and decency require; indecent; indelicate; obscene; lewd; as, immodest persons, behavior, words, pictures, etc.
Immodestly (adv.) In an immodest manner.
Immodesty (n.) Want of modesty, delicacy, or decent reserve; indecency.
Immolated (imp. & p. p.) of Immolate
Immolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immolate
Immolate (v. t.) To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial victim.
Immolation (n.) The act of immolating, or the state of being immolated, or sacrificed.
Immolation (n.) That which is immolated; a sacrifice.
Immolator (n.) One who offers in sacrifice; specifically, one of a sect of Russian fanatics who practice self-mutilatio and sacrifice.
Immold (v. t.) Alt. of Immould
Immould (v. t.) To mold into shape, or form.
Immoment (a.) Trifling.
Immomentous (a.) Not momentous; unimportant; insignificant.
Immoral (a.) Not moral; inconsistent with rectitude, purity, or good morals; contrary to conscience or the divine law; wicked; unjust; dishonest; vicious; licentious; as, an immoral man; an immoral deed.
Immoralities (pl. ) of Immorality
Immorality (n.) The state or quality of being immoral; vice.
Immorality (n.) An immoral act or practice.
Immorally (adv.) In an immoral manner; wickedly.
Immorigerous (a.) Rude; uncivil; disobedient.
Immortal (a.) Not mortal; exempt from liability to die; undying; imperishable; lasting forever; having unlimited, or eternal, existance.
Immortal (a.) Connected with, or pertaining to immortability.
Immortal (a.) Destined to live in all ages of this world; abiding; exempt from oblivion; imperishable; as, immortal fame.
Immortal (a.) Great; excessive; grievous.
Immortal (n.) One who will never cease to be; one exempt from death, decay, or annihilation.
Immortalist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of the immortality of the soul.
Immortalities (pl. ) of Immortality
Immortality (n.) The quality or state of being immortal; exemption from death and annihilation; unending existance; as, the immortality of the soul.
Immortality (n.) Exemption from oblivion; perpetuity; as, the immortality of fame.
Immortalization (n.) The act of immortalizing, or state of being immortalized.
Immortalized (imp. & p. p.) of Immortalize
Immortalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immortalize
Immortalize (v. t.) To render immortal; to cause to live or exist forever.
Immortalize (v. t.) To exempt from oblivion; to perpetuate in fame.
Immortalize (v. i.) To become immortal.
Immortally (adv.) In an immortal manner.
Immortelles (pl. ) of Immortelle
Immortelle (n.) A plant with a conspicuous, dry, unwithering involucre, as the species of Antennaria, Helichrysum, Gomphrena, etc. See Everlasting.
Immortification (n.) Failure to mortify the passions.
Immovability (n.) The quality or state of being immovable; fixedness; steadfastness; as, immovability of a heavy body; immovability of purpose.
Immovable (a.) Incapable of being moved; firmly fixed; fast; -- used of material things; as, an immovable foundatin.
Immovable (a.) Steadfast; fixed; unalterable; unchangeable; -- used of the mind or will; as, an immovable purpose, or a man who remain immovable.
Immovable (a.) Not capable of being affected or moved in feeling or by sympathy; unimpressible; impassive.
Immovable (a.) Not liable to be removed; permanent in place or tenure; fixed; as, an immovable estate. See Immovable, n.
Immovable (n.) That which can not be moved.
Immovable (n.) Lands and things adherent thereto by nature, as trees; by the hand of man, as buildings and their accessories; by their destination, as seeds, plants, manure, etc.; or by the objects to which they are applied, as servitudes.
Immovableness (n.) Quality of being immovable.
Immovably (adv.) In an immovable manner.
Immund (a.) Unclean.
Immundicity (n.) Uncleanness; filthness.
Immune (a.) Exempt; protected by inoculation.
Immunities (pl. ) of Immunity
Immunity (a.) Freedom or exemption from any charge, duty, obligation, office, tax, imposition, penalty, or service; a particular privilege; as, the immunities of the free cities of Germany; the immunities of the clergy.
Immunity (a.) Freedom; exemption; as, immunity from error.
Immured (imp. & p. p.) of Immure
Immuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Immure
Immure (v. t.) To wall around; to surround with walls.
Immure (v. t.) To inclose whithin walls, or as within walls; hence, to shut up; to imprison; to incarcerate.
Immure (n.) A wall; an inclosure.
Immurement (n.) The act iif immuring, or the state of being immured; imprsonment.
Immusical (a.) Inharmonious; unmusical; discordant.
Immutability (n.) The state or quality of being immutable; immutableness.
Immutable (a.) Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change; unchangeable; unalterable.
Immutate (a.) Unchanged.
Immutation (n.) Change; alteration; mutation.
Immute (v. t.) To change or alter.
Imp (n.) A shoot; a scion; a bud; a slip; a graft.
Imp (n.) An offspring; progeny; child; scion.
Imp (n.) A young or inferior devil; a little, malignant spirit; a puny demon; a contemptible evil worker.
Imp (n.) Something added to, or united with, another, to lengthen it out or repair it, -- as, an addition to a beehive; a feather inserted in a broken wing of a bird; a length of twisted hair in a fishing line.
Imped (imp. & p. p.) of Imp
Imping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imp
Imp (n.) To graft; to insert as a scion.
Imp (n.) To graft with new feathers, as a wing; to splice a broken feather. Hence, Fig.: To repair; to extend; to increase; to strengthen to equip.
Impacable (a.) Not to be appeased or quieted.
Impackment (n.) The state of being closely surrounded, crowded, or pressed, as by ice.
Impacted (imp. & p. p.) of Impact
Impacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impact
Impact (v. t.) To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a place.
Impact (n.) Contact or impression by touch; collision; forcible contact; force communicated.
Impact (n.) The single instantaneous stroke of a body in motion against another either in motion or at rest.
Impacted (a.) Driven together or close.
Impaction (n.) The driving of one fragment of bone into another so that the fragments are not movable upon each other; as, impaction of the skull or of the hip.
Impaction (n.) An immovable packing; (Med.), a lodgment of something in a strait or passage of the body; as, impaction of the fetal head in the strait of the pelvis; impaction of food or feces in the intestines of man or beast.
Impaint (v. t.) To paint; to adorn with colors.
Impaired (imp. & p. p.) of Impair
Impairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impair
Impair (v. t.) To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind, value.
Impair (v. t.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.
Impair (a.) Not fit or appropriate.
Impair (n.) Diminution; injury.
Impairer (n.) One who, or that which, impairs.
Impairment (n.) The state of being impaired; injury.
Impalatable (a.) Unpalatable.
Impaled (imp. & p. p.) of Impale
Impaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impale
Impale (v. t.) To pierce with a pale; to put to death by fixing on a sharp stake. See Empale.
Impale (v. t.) To inclose, as with pales or stakes; to surround.
Impale (v. t.) To join, as two coats of arms on one shield, palewise; hence, to join in honorable mention.
Impalement (n.) The act of impaling, or the state of being impaled.
Impalement (n.) An inclosing by stakes or pales, or the space so inclosed.
Impalement (n.) That which hedges in; inclosure.
Impalement (n.) The division of a shield palewise, or by a vertical line, esp. for the purpose of putting side by side the arms of husband and wife. See Impale, 3.
Impalla (n.) The pallah deer of South Africa.
Impallid (v. t.) To make pallid; to blanch.
Impalm (v. t.) To grasp with or hold in the hand.
Impalpability (n.) The quality of being impalpable.
Impalpable (a.) Not palpable; that cannot be felt; extremely fine, so that no grit can be perceived by touch.
Impalpable (a.) Not material; intangible; incorporeal.
Impalpable (a.) Not apprehensible, or readily apprehensible, by the mind; unreal; as, impalpable distinctions.
Impalpably (adv.) In an impalpable manner.
Impalsy (v. t.) To palsy; to paralyze; to deaden.
Impanate (a.) Embodied in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist.
Impanated (imp. & p. p.) of Impanate
Impanating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impanate
Impanate (v. t.) To embody in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist.
Impanation (a.) Embodiment in bread; the supposed real presence and union of Christ's material body and blood with the substance of the elements of the eucharist without a change in their nature; -- distinguished from transubstantiation, which supposes a miraculous change of the substance of the elements. It is akin to consubstantiation.
Impanator (n.) One who holds the doctrine of impanation.
Impaneled (imp. & p. p.) of Impanel
Impanelled () of Impanel
Impaneling () of Impanel
Impanelling () of Impanel
Impanel (v. t.) To enter in a list, or on a piece of parchment, called a panel; to form or enroll, as a list of jurors in a court of justice.
Impanelment (n.) The act or process of impaneling, or the state of being impaneled.
Imparadised (imp. & p. p.) of Imparadise
Imparadising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Imparadise
Imparadise (v. t.) To put in a state like paradise; to make supremely happy.
Imparalleled (a.) Unparalleled.
Impardonable (a.) Unpardonable.
Imparidigitate (a.) Having an odd number of fingers or toes, either one, three, or five, as in the horse, tapir, rhinoceros, etc.
Imparipinnate (a.) Pinnate with a single terminal leaflet.
Imparisyllabic (a.) Not consisting of an equal number of syllables; as, an imparisyllabic noun, one which has not the same number of syllables in all the cases; as, lapis, lapidis; mens, mentis.
Imparity (n.) Inequality; disparity; disproportion; difference of degree, rank, excellence, number, etc.
Imparity (n.) Lack of comparison, correspondence, or suitableness; incongruity.
Imparity (n.) Indivisibility into equal parts; oddness.
Imparked (imp. & p. p.) of Impark
Imparking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impark
Impark (v. t.) To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to inclose or shut up.
Imparl (v. i.) To hold discourse; to parley.
Imparl (v. i.) To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual adjustment.
Imparlance (n.) Mutual discourse; conference.
Imparlance (n.) Time given to a party to talk or converse with his opponent, originally with the object of effecting, if possible, an amicable adjustment of the suit. The actual object, however, has long been merely to obtain further time to plead, or answer to the allegations of the opposite party.
Imparlance (n.) Hence, the delay or continuance of a suit.
Imparsonee (a.) Presented, instituted, and inducted into a rectory, and in full possession.
Imparsonee (n.) A clergyman so inducted.
Imparted (imp. & p. p.) of Impart
Imparting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Impart
Impart (n.) To bestow a share or portion of; to give, grant, or communicate; to allow another to partake in; as, to impart food to the poor; the sun imparts warmth.
Impart (n.) To obtain a share of; to partake of.
Impart (n.) To communica

